he narrates that one day I came to
salatul Fajr
and I came very late so I was in the
very back rows of the Salah
and it was during the khilafa of um
so he walks into the Masjid of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
to pray behind um
and he said I came late so presumably
and the second all the way in the back
row
and he said
was reciting Surah Yusuf that day
and he said that he started to recite
Allah
[Music]
that verily I complain of my grief and
of my sadness only to Allah
and he said he started to cry so loud
that I could hear him all the way from
the back rows subhanallah no speaker
system no nothing I could hear him
weeping all the way from the back rose
and he would try to collect himself and
recite it again and then he would cry
again
and he would try again and he'd cry
now subhanallah if you prayed behind the
Imam and the Imam started to weep in an
unusual way
you know
it's very possible that afterwards you'd
come up to him and just put your hand
tap him on the back and say you know may
Allah make it easy I hope everything's
okay or is everything okay you might be
concerned
but the norm of the companions was to
have this type of a relationship with
the Quran and I want you to ask yourself
what do you think
was crying about
was he crying about
the pain of Jacob with his son Joseph
with Yusuf Ali his salaam and just the
moments of Surah Yusuf that are so
personal
was he crying because he was thinking
about something with the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam was he
perhaps still grieving the death of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam and
we know that he always was grieving the
death of the Prophet saws all the way up
until his own death did something happen
to um to where that Ayah was hitting him
in a particular way did one of his
children become sick was he dealing with
a hardship that no one knew about the
answer is it could be any of them and it
could be all of them because that was
their relationship with the Quran now
how many of you and I just want to see a
show of hands I actually want this to
inshallah be an exercise for us how many
of you have found comfort in Surah Yusuf
during a hard time in your life Surah
Yusuf in particular
very good how many of you have found it
in another Surah in particular can
anyone tell me that Surah
any Surah in particular that that has
appealed to you
very good anyone else want to say
another Surah yes
can you recite repeat
what else
Surah
Zuma masha'allah so many surahs I can
see them coming all right we'll we'll
finish all the surahs in the Quran
and that's actually a good thing that's
the point different surahs will speak to
you at a different point in your life
now
a question that I get asked and it's a
it's an interesting question and I want
to unpack it a bit inshallah
does the Quran cure depression you know
right now we live in a world where
mental health has been put front and
center especially in the wake of a
pandemic and these questions about
mental health and depression and
emptiness and grief
and it forces us to really dig deep and
to look for Solutions and may Allah make
it easy for everyone who has been
struggling in whatever way they have
been
and the question will be about the Quran
and specific the relationship of the
Quran to depression to sadness to grief
and everything that comes under that
category of sadness and I want to unpack
this a bit from the perspective of our
Deen and it's very important for us to
say and to acknowledge from the very
start that as Muslims our solutions to
these problems are going to be unique
because our belief system is so unique
we believe in something very different
and so it's very hard for us to relate
this to someone who doesn't believe Like
We believe We believe that everything
good comes from Allah
we believe that everything that will
give us salvation in this life and in
the next is found in some way grounded
within this notion of tohed within this
notion of the Oneness of God we believe
that in the messenger
is
an excellent example in every single
manner of our lives and so the way we
approach this question necessarily has
to be different from the way that
someone else approaches this question
so let's start with a rule
there is a difference between prevention
and restoration prevention and
restoration meaning something that
protects one from falling into
difficulty and something that cures you
once you have fallen into difficulty
prevention versus restoration and we can
say without a doubt that the Quran is a
means of prevention
from many of the hardships that come in
our lives and the things that ail us in
our lives many of them
the Quran is a prevention and to not
have the Quran in your heart is a source
of sadness is a source of emptiness if
you don't have the Quran in your heart
and we know this from the Prophet
salallahu alaihi wasallam
The Prophet saws the one who doesn't
have anything of the Quran in their
heart is like a destroyed house
it's like a destroyed house and so if
you go to a destroyed house and you try
to fix one wall or put up one stick
you're still dealing with a house that
is destroyed the Quran is the source of
our collectiveness of our togetherness
in the first place it's the first
foundation of the and so the Quran is a
source of fulfillment the Quran is a
source of meaning and certainly much of
what can cause sadness and Emptiness is
a lack of clarity and a lack of purpose
and the Quran gives a strong sense of
clarity and a strong sense of purpose to
us a strong sense of fulfillment and so
at that level the Quran is a foundation
for meaning and meaning is a foundation
for happiness let's start with that then
you go to the question of restoration
as a cure for that which is in the tests
so the Quran is a cure now
is the Quran a cure for a physical
illness
if a person is physically sick as the
Quran part of a cure for that person
yes
reading Quran on a person part of rookia
it's part of a cure the prophet saws
even allowed for sides
to read upon a non-muslim chief and it
cured him from a physical perspective
now here's where it becomes a very
important question as well
because there's a difference between
saying that the Quran is the cure a cure
and being dismissive of other ways in
which we also strengthen ourselves is it
impermissible to take medicine while you
read the Quran on yourself as you're
physically curing yourself
no
so there's a difference between saying
to someone that the Quran is a cure read
Quran on yourself drink from this water
read you know read on yourself and just
do that and don't take any medicine
don't do anything else don't do anything
else for your physical health
and dismissing the Quran together the
Quran is
a cure for what is in the chest now we
are made up of so many different beings
right in the sense that we have a
physical perspective a mental
perspective a spiritual perspective an
emotional perspective a physiological
perspective all of these things are to
be taken into consideration of the
Prophet saws to give everything its
right to give your body its right and to
give all of these different parts of
yourself they're right and so that's why
they're element mentioned
approaches this in the same way from a
physical perspective the prophet saws to
a woman who was complaining of sadness
to use tabina which is boiled uh barley
and he said sallallahu
that it does away with some of your
grief so a prophetic medicine without
any of the side effects and things of
that sort meaning that it establishes a
permissibility it establishes the
permissibility of other methods this is
not an Open Door by the way for all of
the antidepressants that are out there
and the quick over-diagnosis that also
exists within this field okay this is to
say that Islam acknowledges and is not
dismissive of the fact that there are
other ways that we all keep our hearts
healthy that we keep our moods up that
we keep ourselves emotionally engaged so
if someone tells you read Surah and take
a walk and talk to this person all of
that
but for the Muslim the Quran is
fundamentally
part of that alleviation
you understand the Quran is
fundamentally part of that process at
the prevention level and at the
restoration level and to neglect it is
only to your own judgment so no you
don't come you know someone comes to you
and says that you know I'm I'm feeling
this and you neglect everything and say
just read it'll go away tomorrow
no but you also look towards the Quran
as a means of that elevation as a means
of that alleviation of a person and
that's fundamental to us and I actually
want you subhanallah think about this
powerful Dua from the prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam and Ramadan is a time to
memorize
has been doing every day after Salat
going over some of the duas from the
Sunnah some of the supplications from
the prophet Muhammad peace and blessings
be upon him you can go to the Aquin
website and you'll see
authored duas for hardship do I ask for
hardship and you'll find many of those
duas that are meant to alleviate
hardship and this particular one is a
profound one that I want us to pay
attention to the wording of
foreign
no one says this Dura except that Allah
turns their Ram turns their hardship
their distrust into farha into a sense
of Happiness so Allah changes their
condition as a result of this Dua and he
taught the sahaba to say this Dua
frequently and the dura is as follows
and you can find it in multiple
variations with slight wording and
that's okay slight changes
can you repeat after me Allah
foreign
so I'll cover the first part of this
I am your slave
the son of your slave
the son of your female slave meaning a
woman the son of a male and a female
slave of yours oh Allah
foreign your judgment concerning me will
pass as it has been affirmed and your
decree concerning me is just
can you repeat it after me
tabihi
nafsak
oh
foreign
the spring of my heart the light of my
chest the reliever of my grief and the
reliever of my distress
grief prison means the grief that comes
before him means the stress the anxiety
of what is to come
and what I want you to understand is
that the has meaning it's not just an
empty Dua that you just read no but the
prophet saws specifically asking Allah
to make the Quran the greatest source of
relief in a person's life
the greatest source of cure in a
person's life
and I challenge each and every single
one of you it really is a challenge and
I'll challenge myself
if the Quran is part of your daily life
come to me two months later
and tell me that your mood has not
changed tell me that your happiness has
not increased tell me that you have not
felt a greater connection to Allah and
felt more about okay in your day again
we don't dismiss the physiological the
emotional the mental and so many other
things but we place the Quran as part of
all of that because the Quran forms the
foundation of meaning in our hearts and
so every single day after
even if it's going to be two pages a day
if you start your day with it five pages
maybe 10 pages maybe you can start doing
a Jews every single day Allah Knows Best
But if you start your day with it watch
what happens to your life
and you'll find that it transforms it in
a way that a house is being built inside
of you to the contrast of what the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasam
described as a destroyed home and
subhanallah I'll also say this in
conclusion that you'll find that when
the element spoke about the Quran and
different surahs that help them through
their difficult times the Quran speaks
to every circumstance
with both the voice of God as well as
the actions of those that are most
pleasing to him meaning what you have
Allah's analysis of every circumstance
someone who's lost someone who's going
through difficulty someone who's going
through hardship someone who's at the
top someone who's at the bottom and it
gives you the response of the most
beloved people to him so none of it is
going to be irrelevant to this
discussion so you might find Surah Yusuf
at one point in your life you might find
surahman is what your heart needs in
this moment you might find Surah you
might connect with parts of the Quran
that you were unfamiliar with but now
because you're reading it regularly
you're finding a connection and
inshallah a means by which the fog
clears clarity
Clarity is so important
to a person who needs to proceed through
this life Clarity the Quran gives you
Clarity and it has Miracles embedded
within it that no book of science is
ever going to be able to capture may
Allah make the Quran the spring of our
hearts the light of our chest the
reliever of our grief and the reliever
of our distress